# Final Readme.md

## Proposal Week
During the time I worked on my proposal, I also began working on the very basics of my project. Mainly, I picked through the web to find resources and references to help me familiarize myself with the idea I had in mind: A to-do list. I also visited sample and Open Source codes to dissect and test on, and my plan is to combine this new knowledge of several codes to attempt and execute a similar code inspired by one of said examples. I also set up the files needed for my final project.

## Section 1: Starting and the Header
After setting up my main files (resources, css, and js), I began writing the basic setup. At this point I was following a tutorial on YouTube, considering I'd never done this piece before, really. I started by writing an index.html. Within this I included the necessary formatting, including linking used files and creating a body and header. Along with this, I created a style.css, where I then wrote the coding for the header, and a reset.css. A fun thing happened while I was working on the header at two am where I accidentally put (parantheses) in place of {curly brackets} at almost every point, so that was great to go through and fix later.

Anyway, I created the header and text box in the style.css; surprisingly, I already somewhat knew what I was doing because of my messing around during the proposal week. I wanted to make the to-do list take up the entire browser and then I played around with colors and borders (radiuses) a bit until I settled on something I liked. I also altered the text color, realized I hated it, and changed it back to its default. Along with that, I decided I'd change the default font; I was going to go with a font called sans forgetica, which, despite its bizarre look, was designed wth psychology principles in mind in order to help users remember what they wrote. I thought that would be a look concept for a to-do list, but I couldn't find an HTML embed for it, so I went with the very round and pretty font Raleway instead. After that I changed the font size for an easy-to-read look, and added a text indent so the text wouldn't start right up against the border of the text box.

After making the general header, I had to add a button that allowed users to create a new goal. I positioned it at the far end of the text bar, where the text bar is already shaped to accommodate the round button. I adjusted the size of the button and the outline, and added a pencil image for indication. Said pencil image comes from a site full of free icon packages, called Flaticon, and the icon itself is called "pencil" from the "Essential Collection Icon Package" by Smashicon. After adding the icon, it was a little too large for the button itself, so I had to resize it to fit properly. This took some trial and error to get it the correct size.

## Section 2: The Body and JavaScript
First of all, I created light blue background for the body, then I added some JavaScript within the HTML. After that, I moved to the JavaScript file to add the beginnings of controls to the add button.

Back in the HTML and style.css, I added text bars where the goal items will eventually be, with a placeholder to make sure everything was working properly. I'm realizing now that this project is probably not predominantly JavaScript as the final guidelines requested, but this me already being a fourth of the way in the project and thoroughly enjoying the learning experience, I think I'm going to continue the project anyway. After creating the text bars and making sure everything's working, I added the buttons for both completing the goal or throwing away the goal, adding images the same way I added the first icon to the first button. These icons also come from Flaticon, the check mark icon being "tick" and the trash bin being "trash" by Smashicon (from the same package as "pencil"). I would have really liked designing my own icons but I wouldn't have had the time to design them in full and I don't know how to create svg files.
